So we've seen in this module that an application will have multiple class
loaders, and we've seen how those class loaders will delegate.
So when we try and load a class,
it will ask the application class loader, that will
delegate app to the extensions class loader in Java 8 or
the platform class loader in Java.
11, which will further delegate to the Bootstrap class loader.
If the Bootstrap class loader first loads the class. that goes
back to the next class loader in the delegation,
and if that class loader fails to load the class,
it goes back to the application class loader.
And that's when we get our chance to try and load the class.
We've talked about the fact there's an extensions class loader in
Java 8 that loads extensions from an extensions directory, which
we could set on the command line.
We've talked about that in Java 11, that extensions class loader is
replaced by the platform class loader, and these both have a similar
job to try and load classes that are not part of the standard Java
runtime, but can be considered by the platform classes in Java 11 terms
or extension classes in Java 8 terms. And then we've looked at the
Bootstrap class loader.
This class loader is not written in Java, it's written in
C, and the job of this is to load the base classes. so
things in java.lang, for example. So now that we've seen this, let's go on and write our own class loader.